For some, living a life dedicated to God
meant giving up something they loved to do
but that demanded their full attention.
We met a brother in South Africa
who had to decide
what would be his life’s devotion.
What factors led him
to make the better choice?
I love soccer very much.
It was one thing that gave me pleasure.
Growing up in Newcastle
in the township of Osizweni
was quite a nice experience.
As kids (young boys)
playing soccer on the streets
with bare feet, using bricks as goal posts,
and playing right till after sunset
—even at school, playing at lunch breaks—
playing soccer was like culture for us.
I couldn’t see anything else
better than soccer.
I ended up representing the province
and then played for the Youth National Teams
representing the country
and then got chosen
to play professional soccer
with one of the local clubs.
And then eventually
I went overseas
to play in different tournaments
in countries like Belgium,
Netherlands, France, and Germany.
I had fun at the time and enjoyed it,
you know, because it’s something
that you grow up hoping to achieve.
Then, when it does happen,
it makes you happy
and proud of yourself
and, of course, your family is proud,
your community,
everyone who worked hard
in getting you there.
While I was on holiday from soccer,
I went over to visit my brother,
who was studying the Bible
with the Witnesses.
I asked him about it.
He explained to me
—basically, preached to me—
and he took me to my first meeting.
I was amazed to see
so much emphasis in the Bible
and to look at young kids
who knew how to look up the scriptures.
I didn’t know the Bible,
although I had been going
to church all my life.
And seeing the love
at the Kingdom Hall there
just made me realize
that there was something in this,
and I had to look closely to see what it was.
Deep personal study,
Bible reading,
and meditation helped me realize that,
hey, Jehovah requires that I put him first
and that professional soccer
requires the same thing
—full dedication.
What now?
I must say, deciding to quit
professional soccer
and serve Jehovah more fully
was not an easy decision
because I knew what it would involve
—disappointing my whole family, relatives,
friends, my whole community,
the whole country,
people who were very close to me,
who really loved me.
With a professional sport, soccer,
or any career in this world,
there are no guarantees, you know.
And with Jehovah, everything is guaranteed
as long as we put him first.
And I realized that I had to make a decision:
to quit professional soccer
and put Jehovah to the test
and “taste and see that [he] is good.”
And, of course, coming to Bethel
was a special privilege,
because here
you give Jehovah
everything you have every day.
And that’s where I met my wife
—thanks to coming to full-time service.
Meeting someone who is very supportive of me,
who loves Jehovah primarily,
who loves me
and having a teammate like that
is a wonderful blessing.
Working in the sign-language field
is a special blessing also.
Here you’re teaching deaf people the truth.
It’s a quiet world for them,
and here they see you as a hearing person,
and they can see
you’ve worked hard to learn the language.
And you introduce them
to Jehovah in a special way.
You see them growing
in the truth,
despite being deaf, and understanding
that Jehovah understands sign language
—he understands their language.
You see them growing in appreciation
and even accepting that they’re deaf
not because of Jehovah;
and they understand why they’re deaf,
and they come to understand
why others have disabilities.
And to see them being happy in their lives
for a change thanks to the truth,
I’m grateful that I chose to play
for Jehovah’s team,
because in the world
the very same people
that you play with on the same team
(your teammates)
you’re competing with all the time;
you’re always competing to be chosen;
you’re fighting for positions.
And you come to this side
in the organization
being with fellow brothers and sisters,
and we don’t compete for Jehovah’s approval.
Jehovah appreciates each and every one of us.
Success in this world can look like security,
but Brother Mzizi realized only Jehovah
can secure our everlasting future.
Instead of accepting a high-paying contract
in professional soccer,
he took the path that enabled him
to “let [his] light shine” in the ministry
and for ten years in Bethel service.